Let me start with a
quick question that may
seem unrelated to security.
Do you have a favorite building?
And what is it about
its architecture that
impresses you the most?
The windows? The
structure of the walls?
Just like buildings,
operating systems also have
an architecture
and are made up of
discrete components that work
together to form the whole.
In this video, we're
going to look at
all the components that
together make up Linux.
The components of Linux include
the user, applications,
the shell, the Filesystem
Hierarchy Standard,
the kernel, and the hardware.
Don't worry—we'll go into
these components one
by one together.
First, you are the user.
The user is the person
interacting with the computer.
In Linux, you're
the first element
to the architecture of
the operating system.
You're initiating the tasks or
commands that the OS
is going to execute.
Linux is a multi-user system.
This means that more
than one user can
use the system's resources
at the same time.
The second element
of the architecture
is the applications
within a system.
An application is a program
that performs a specific task,
such as a word processor
or a calculator.
You might hear the
word "applications"
and "programs" used
interchangeably.
As an example,
one popular Linux
application that
we'll learn more
about later is Nano.
Nano is a text editor.
This simple application helps
you keep notes on the screen.
Linux applications are commonly
distributed through
package managers.
We'll learn more about
this process later.
The next component
in the architecture
of Linux is the shell.
This is an important
element because
it is how you will
communicate with the system.
The shell is a command
line interpreter.
It processes commands
and outputs the results.
This might sound familiar.
Previously, we learned
about the two types
of user interfaces:
the GUI and the CLI.
You can think of
the shell as a CLI.
Another element of
the architecture of
Linux is the Filesystem
Hierarchy Standard,
or FHS. It's
the component of the Linux
OS that organizes data.
An easy way for
you to think about
the FHS is to think about it
as a filing cabinet of data.
The FHS is how data is
stored in a system.
It's a way to organize
data so that it can be
found when the data is
accessed by the system.
That brings us to the kernel.
The kernel is a component of
the Linux OS that manages
processes and memory.
The kernel communicates
with the hardware
to execute the commands
sent by the shell.
The kernel uses
drivers to enable
applications to execute tasks.
The Linux kernel helps
ensure that the system
allocates resources
more efficiently
and makes the
system work faster.
Finally, the last component of
the architecture
is the hardware.
Hardware refers to the physical
components of a computer.
You can compare this to
software applications
which can be downloaded
into a system.
The hardware in your
computer are things
like the CPU, mouse,
and keyboard.
Congratulations!
We've now covered
the architecture
of Linux. An understanding of
these components will help you
become increasingly
familiar with Linux.